Commands:

1. cd (foldername)\(foldername) - for changing directory (going inside a particular 
folder), if the foldername contains space enclose it with ""

2. cd ..\.. - for going backwards (exiting) from the current directory (folder)

3. pwd - print current working directory

4. ls - listing all the contents at once of the current directory (folder)

5. tab - for autocompleting commands (it gives all the possible options to consider)

6. dir - for also listing the contents of the current directory in details (gives the 
total directories and files)

7. dir (remaining pathname to that directory from the current directory) - same as 
above, the difference is that it doesn't changes the path of the current directory

8. dir /a - same as dir plus for displaying all the system's hidden files, here /a is the option

9. cls - for clearing the screen

10. dir *.(file extension) - same as dir but this will list only all the files that 
have the given file extension

11. uparrow/downarrow - for navigating history of commands

12. (filename) - this will open the file for the specified filename using the default
application (make sure to surround the filename having spaces with double quotes)

13. (commandname) /? - this will give the in brief about the command name specified
(list of options, description, etc) also known as the help command

14. mkdir (directoryname)- for creating a directory (folder)

15. rmdir (directoryname) - for deleting the directory (folder)

16. rmdir /s (directoryname) - for deleting all the contents of the directory (folder), here /s is the option

17. (holding) ctrl + leftarrow/rightarrow - for traversing word by word

18. ctrl + c - for force stopping the program/application

19. Absolute path is the exact path of the file or the folder (entire directory), 
we can do cd (absolutepath) and our current directory will change to the absolute path.

20. path - gives the list of all directories windows has to search for from the root directory to open the 
given (specified) application.

21. path %path%;(pathname) - we can use this to set new path temporarily (in the path variable), after this we can open any application present in the new added path from the root directory  

23. (drivename) - to go to that particular drive

24. In the C drive, programfiles folder has all 64-bit applications and programfiles(x86) has all the 32-bit applications

25. tree - this command shows hierarchical relationships between folders of the current directory 

26. echo > (filename) - to create a new file in the current directory

27. rm (filename) - to remove the specified file in the current directory

28. attrib - this command displays the file attributes

29. attrib +/-(attribute name (letter)) (filename) - this is used to set the file attribute to hidden, read-only, etc. + for setting the attribute
- for clearing the attribute 

30. del (filename) (filename) - to delete a file(s)

31. type (filename) - to read the contents of the file from the command prompt

32. copy (filename) (pathname to the folder/foldername) - it copies the file to the specified destination, provided the file is accessible from the current directory and also the folder else we should give the path to the folder to copy the file (primarily for copying files to folders)

33. xcopy (firstfoldername) (secondfoldername) /s - it copies the firstfoldername (all files,sub-folders,etc) to the secondfoldername provided both
the folders are accesible from the current directory else give the path to the folder (primarily for copying folders to folders)

34. move (firstfoldername) (secondfoldername) - for moving the firstfoldername to the secondfoldername provided both are accessible from the currentdirectory

35. rename (foldername) (newfoldername) - it renames the foldername to the new foldername

36. 

