In, Vim we have normal mode, insert mode and visual mode.
Initially, when we open Vim, we have normal mode which is used to delete (edit) and traverse through the document (but not write).

In the Windows OS, we have Windows Subsystem for linux (Ubuntu Distros), where we can access the Vim text editor.

To access Vim, we can type 'vim' on the terminal emulator.
This opens the Vim editor, to start editing (inserting) we can type 'i' to go into the insert mode and start editing the document.

Since this creates a new file we have to name the file first before saving we can type':w nameofthefile.txt' to name 
the file. Then to save the file we can use ':wq' this saves and exits the Vim editor.

We use 'vim (filename)' to open vim with the given filename. If the file exists in the given directory it will open 
that file else new file will be created and we have to give the filename.


Commands in normal mode:

1. :q - to exit the vim editor directly

2. :wq - to save and exit the editor

3. :q! - to exit without saving 

4. esc - to come out of any mode

5. :w (filename) - to give the filename

6. For traversing we use h --> left, j --> down, k --> up, l --> right (character by character).

7. ndd - to delete n line(s) (it also cuts the line)

8. ndw - to delete n word(s)

9. nx - to delete n character(s) 

10. nu - n undo(s)

11. :set number - to have line numbers towards left

12. :(line number) - to go to the provided line(number) 

13. gg - top of the document

14. shift + g - end of the document

15. nw - to traverse 'n' word by word (best for fast traversing)

16. nb - to traverse 'n' word(s) backwards

17. p - to paste the line (which is copied, cutted, deleted (using dd))

18. nce - to delete word(s) and go into the insert mode directly and type out the new word. We can also type 'c$' to 
delete the entire line and go to the insert mode and type out the new line. 

19. yy - to copy(yank) the line and 'y$' to copy from cursor to the end of the line

20. dd - to cut the line 

21. v - to go into visual mode where we can select the text using up-down arrow keys and then press d/y to cut/copy, 
then it will go into normal mode where we can paste it using 'p' key.

22. / (word(s)) + enter - here 'word' is the word theat we want to search in then normal mode. To go to the next 
searched word press n and for going to the previous searched word press N.

23. r(letter) - to replace the letter withe the given letter in normal mode. Such as 'ri', here we'll replace the letterwhere the cursor is at with the letter specified after r.

24. :split (filename) - this splits the screen horizontally and opens a new file specified in the filename if it exists
in the same directory. If we want to split vertically we can use vsplit instead of split. We use 'ctrl + ww' to switch between both the files. 

25. ctrl + r - redo

26. 0 - to go the beginning of the line

27. f(character) - to go to theat specified character in the line

28. F(character) - to go to theat specified character in the line (backwards).

29. A - it takes the cursor to the end of the line and automatically goes into insert mode to complete the line.

30. s - wherever the cursor is at it deletes theat character and goes into insert mode to edit.

31. S - deletes the whole line and enters into insert mode.

32. o - creates a new line below the line (where the cursor is at) and goes into insert mode.

33. O - creates a new line at the top of the line(where the cursor is at) and goes into insert mode.

34. d$ - deletes from the cursor to the end of the line

35. % - to go to the parenthesis symbol directly in a line

36. :%s/oldword/newword/g - this is used for replacing the oldword with the newword in the whole document

37. :%s/oldword/newword/gc - this is used for replacing the oldword with the newword in the whole document(with prompts)

38. :!(command) - to type system commands in vim without closing it

39. ctrl + d - to check if the command in the command (normal) mode is a valid one and what are the other similar commands starting from it.

40. vim (filename) (filename) - this command is used to open two files directly together in the vim editor if they both exists in the same 
directory. To go to the next file we use ':n' and for going into the previous one we use ':prev'.

41. vim (pathname) (pathname) - this command is used to open files which are present respectively in their paths and for switching between the files
we use same as above ie. /mnt/c/sikan/..... and /mnt/d/Web Development/..... 

42. :recover - to recover the accidentally deleted file

43. vim -r (filename) - this is also used to recover the unsaved/deleted file

44. 

































